Exercise: Calculate Season
if example. Create an exercise to put
into practice the if-else statement at
the end we should observe the following
we create a new project the name of the
project is CalculateMonthIf so we create
a new project click on file new project
select Java and Java application click
on next the project name is CalculateSeasonIf
and the project location is lesson04
and click on finish. We will create a new
class called CalculateSeasonIfTest
the class name is CalculateSeasonIfTest
the package name is test and click on
finish. We will modify the code as shown
below the package name is test the
public class is calculate season if test
and we create a main method with a clear
a variable called month equal to 1 we
will use this variable to represent the
month of the year we declare a
variable called season of type a string
and we check using the if structure if
month is equal to 1 or month is equal to
2 or month is equal to 12
the season is equal to winter, we
can add and else if structure to check
other months in this case if month is
equal to 3 or month is equal to 4 or
month is equal to 5 the season is spring
in a similar way we can check else if
month is equal to 6 7 or 8 the season is
equal to summer
and we can check if the month is equal
to 9 10 or 11 the season is equal to
autumn in any other case the season is
equal to incorrect month and finally we
print the season of the month is and we
use the variables month and season to
print every variable that we need so in
this case because we are initializing
the month variable to 1 the month will
enter to the if statement and the season
will be equal to winter but we can
modify the value of month from 1 to 12
to check every case that we have
programmed in this application we finish
the main method and we close the class
we execute the project so right click on
the class and Run File so as we have
seen in the program the season for the
month 1 is winter but you can test every
month from 1 to 12 to check the season
of every month with this exercise we are
put into practice the handling of the if
structure next we will implement the
switch structure in Java
you